# **CS 225 Final Project - Pokémon Type Advantage Graph Visualization**

## **Development Log (ccl4-harryc3-devbp2-suyashn2)**

### **Week 1**
We had two meetings this first week to smooth out the details even more for the project. This is because we had Thanksgiving to work on the projects as well. We established that we will be doing a directed graph where the edge is stored in the "stronger" Pokemon based on the type advantage. Charles' assigned task was to create a data parser to read the CSV. That way rather than having to go through the CSV to build the graph, we could go through the data parser instead and easily access the data we need using methods. Suyash was assigned to create the adjacency list implementation for the graph data structure as well as  any other supporting classes like Vertex and Edge. Harry was assigned to create a graph builder class that took the graph data structure and data parser and populated the graph with veritices and edges. Dev was assigned to implement BFS for the graph assuming that the graph is an adjacency list.

### **Week 2**
At the beginnning of the week, we were able to complete both the implementation for the graph as well as the data parser. The graph builder and BFS were still in progress. We had to change a few things with the implementation of the graph throughout the week specifically with seperating the vertex and edge from the graph class as well as storing objects in the vector for the graph rather than pointers. Additionally, we identified some problems with both BFS and the graph building with the edge weights and segmentation fault on access using BFS. Since graph was finished, Harry and Charles were assigned to fix the graph builder and graph. Suyash was to work on the graph coloring, and Dev was to work on BFS. 

### **Week 3**
After changing the implementation of the graph to store values in the vector, we realized that it caused more problems with our pointers since vectors reallocate memory to resize. so Harry reverted the graph to store pointers, making the graph on the heap, and created a destructor to go along with it. Then, everything that needed changes because of the pointers we adjusted as well.
Dev finished up the test cases for BFS and the graph to ensure that everything was correct before we moved onto some of the more complicated algorithms. He also fixed the areAdjacent() method in graph.cpp. Since our graph is directed, we had to look at the incident edges for both vertices and Dev created an optimized O(deg(v)) version of it. Suyash began working on the BFS graph coloring algorithm with the help of Dev.

### **Week 4**
For this week, we started off by implementing proper encapsulation with our graph and made changes to every file to accommodate this. For graph coloring, we faced the problem of requiring incoming and outgoing edges for each vertex in order for the BFS implementation to work. Suyash and Dev solved this by adding an incoming edges vector for each Vertex. After this, we saw that the coloring would sometimes make errors, so Suyash realized that sorting the Edges would fix this bug, which then correctly generated the color ID for each vertex. 

For the graph visualization, Charles, Harry, and Dev researched force-directed algorithms. We finalized using the spring force for attraction and coulombic force for repulsion. Suyash then created methods to translate a Vertex's color ID to an HSLAPixel representing a distinct color. This will be used for the graph coloring visual representation. Charles and Dev worked on tweaking the constants for the force calculations, and moving the vertices appropriately based on the forces applied. Harry then used the final coordinates for each vertex to draw the edges between the vertices. We drew the edges first, then drew the vertices on top of the edges. Charles had the idea of using a green-to-red gradient for the edges instead of drawing arrows to show direction; the vertex closest to the green end of the edge is stronger than the vertex closest to the red end of the edge. For drawing the vertices, we first decided to use the StickerSheet class and have a vertex image, but resizing that image distorted the pixels on the actual image, so then we just drew a square/circle for each vertex. We then finalized the visual for the graph and Harry worked on restructuring the codebase. Harry added different make targets and added command line arguments for the main.cpp file. All members worked on the written report and slides and created the video for final submission. 
